The stuff in this directory is the latest version
(12/13/2005) of the NHC interpolator code that 
Jim Gross sent to me.  This code does NOT contain
the GHMI-specific interpolator code.



----------------------------------------------------


The following describes a stand alone version of the NHC ATCF model
guidance interpolator.  This code will produce interpolated forecasts
for a particular model for the entire life of a storm.


To run the stand alone NHC forecast interpolator, do the following:


nhc_intrfcst.x strmid output_file_extension


where nhc_intrfcst.x is the executable, strmid id the storm ID and
output_file_extension is the character string that will be attached
to the end of the strmid file name.


Example:

nhc_intrfcst.x al102003 interptest

Doing this will give you an output file named aal102003.interptest
with only the interpolated guidance inside of it.

To do multiple storms, put the above statement in a script.


To produce the executable, run the Makefile after making the
necessary changes for your FORTRAN complier.


Note that as currently configured, the storm's a-deck and b-deck
must be in the same directory.  Change the FORTRAN source, if you
want them elsewhere.  The value of "home_path" in nhc_intrfcst.f
indicates where your adecks and bdecks are stored.

It is a given that the model guidance you want to construct
interpolated versions for already exists in the a-deck.  If not,
merge them in and then run the executable.


Finally, the output file will contain only the interpolated
forecasts.  Merge this output deck with the original a-deck
for verification purposes.


                    ***** Important *****


1. If using the ATCF merge program, remember that if you chose
to use the same interpolated model names when making your runs,
the merge process will overwrite the original interpolated
models with your new versions in the a-deck.  To prevent this
from happening either choose new, unique interpolated model
names or only merge the output from this program with copies
of the original a-deck.


2. You must change the FORTRAN source to change the original, 
6-h interpolated and 12-h interpolated model names.  This is 
done via these 3 data statements in nhc_intrfcst.f:  fst_tech, 
tech_12, and tech_06.  Also change the variable "nmodel"
in the parameter statement if you need to have more names in 
those data statements.

3. TPM (7/2010):  Note that the program is set up so that it will 
always attempt to compute both a 6-h interpolated and 12-h 
interpolated forecast.  But be aware that if a forecast is found from 
6 hours prior, the program will output only the 6-h interpolated 
forecast.  In real time operations, this makes sense.  However, for 
retrospective runs, we may wish to evaluate how the 12-h interpolated 
forecast performs, since, for example, in real time, some of the 
models may be so delayed that they are only available as 12-h
interpolated versions.  Therefore, I included a flag in the code
called "prevent_6h_interp";  Set this flag to "y" if you want to 
prevent the 6h interpolation from being done and instead force the
12-h interpolation to be output.

------------------------------------------------------------------
